Over the last
24 hours or
so, there has been intensifying exchanges
of fire between
Israel and Hezbollah
militants that operate inside Lebanon.
Hezbollah is
a terrorist organization
that gets support from Iran,
but operates as a quasi
governmental force, really
inside the borders of Lebanon.
They've been going back
and forth with Israel
over the last seven days.
United Nations peacekeepers
who operate inside
southern Lebanon
say that their headquarters
were hit by a wayward rocket.
Luckily, no one was hurt there.
But it gives you
a sense of the situation
along that border with Israel now
saying that people who live
within two kilometers of that border
should evacuate.
28 villages concern.
Our Matthew Chance is in northern Israel,
not far from that border right now.
Matthew, give us the situation
a very tense situation up
here, close to the Lebanese border here.
Right
within the past
few hours,
the Israeli military has ordered 28
Israeli communities to evacuate
from their
positions very close to that frontier
with Lebanon.
And so that's in process now.
And that follows
a string of cross-border attacks
that have been taking place
over the course of the past 24 hours,
or in fact, even longer than that.
But nine rocket attacks
according to
the Israeli Defense Forces
over the course of the past 24 hours.
They've responded to that
with air strikes and artillery strikes,
some of which we can hear
are being launched
from very close
to this location here,
close to the Lebanese border.
We were also able, though,
to gain some access to that exclusion
zone close to the border.
It's actually four kilometers,
about two and a half miles
back from the border
that they've now said is off limits
to Israeli civilians.
They gave us access and showed us
where
the basically that the front lines were.
It's also the place, remember,
which could really turn this conflict
inside Israel into a much broader
regional war.
And so it's a very dangerous
sort of tipping point here
in northern Israel.
Still,
all the civilians that we talk
we talked to most of them, at least
the soldiers, the politicians
that I've been in contact with as well.
They are so enraged,
so angry at what happened
in Gaza last weekend that they say
they are ready, even bristling
for a fight with Hezbollah.
Take a listen to what one
Israeli commander told me right
close to the Lebanese border.
Are you hopeful still that
Hezbollah will stay out of this war?
I hope there will be another front.
We need to destroy Hezbollah.
You hope there will be another front.
You want the war?
Yes. Why?
What Hamas did in Gaza,
it didn't come from nowhere.
It came from Hezbollah.
It came from Iran.
And in order for us to stop
what happened from Hamas,
we need to stop them also.
Yeah, John.
And the big difference
now, of course, is that for some reason,
the Israeli military were not ready
during the Gaza attacks.
They are very ready up here
in the north of the country.
Matthew was really extraordinary
to see him pointing right there.
It gives you a sense
of how close they are.
He was merely
just pointing a little bit north
to where
Hezbollah operates
with these extremely powerful
and well-trained militias.
Matthew Chance
in northern Israel, please stay safe.
U.S.
Secretary of State
Tony Blinken is back in Israel Today,
he's been in the region traveling
all throughout the region.
For days now.
We're standing by to see
if Blinken will speak to reporters
this hour.
A critical update
potentially coming from him,
given the news
that you just reported, John.
The IDF offered
this also a sobering update
on the hostages
taken by Hamas terrorists.
They now
believe 199 people are being held hostage
by Hamas in Gaza.
They've also said over the weekend
that some
may have been killed in transit,
if you will,
during the trip from Israel into Gaza.
Sara Sidner is right now in Haifa,
Israel, where U.S.
evacuations are underway. Hey, Sara.
Hey, Kate and John.
It's good to see you guys there.
Safe and sound.
We are safe and sound at the moment.
Here in Haifa,
Israel, where we have
just watched in the last 2 hours.
A huge ship
taking away Americans
out of the danger zone and to Cyprus.
We'll get to that in just a minute.
But first,
I want to go to our Jeremy Diamond,
who has been tracking the whereabouts
and and the conversations
that Anthony Blinken
has been having
the secretary of state here
for the second time in just a week
as Israel prepares
for a potential ground war with Gaza.
And as this war rages on.
What can you tell us,
Jeremy, about the plans here?
What Secretary Blinken is doing back here
again, why it was so important
for him to show up in this country
a second time in
such a short amount of time
Well, Sarah, just to give
you a sense
of how fluid
the situation on the ground is right
now, the secretary,
even the reporter is traveling
with the secretary of state,
really haven't had a clear sense
of exactly
who he's been meeting with and when,
although we did just get a readout
from the secretary of state spokesman
that he did indeed meet with the Israeli
prime minister
as well as the presidents
of Israel, Isaac Herzog.
And in these readouts,
we don't have a ton of details,
but it's clear
what the focus of these discussions is
It is the release of those hostages
being held in Gaza.
And it is, of course,
the situation regarding humanitarian aid
being able to flow into Gaza
and having Americans
who are trapped
in Gaza be able to exit southward
and into Egypt.
Over the last
several days,
there has been a lot of finger pointing,
a lot of conflicting information
concerning
when or whether that Rafah
crossing between Gaza and Egypt
might indeed open.
The Egyptian officials
have blamed the Israelis at time.
At times.
And there's been a lot of
conflicting information.
US embassy officials
telling Americans inside of Gaza
to head for that crossing,
expecting it to open.
But as of yet,
we have not seen any evidence
that that crossing has indeed open.
So the question is
whether at the end of this day,
as the secretary of state concludes
a series of meetings
with Israeli officials,
whether we will be in a place
where humanitarian aid
will start flowing into Gaza,
and whether those Americans
and perhaps other civilians
will be able to exit Gaza and into Egypt.
Amid all of this,
we also have the Israeli prime
minister inviting
President Joe Biden to come visit Israel
The president
so far not confirming
whether or not
he intends to visit Israel.
But we do know that today
he was scheduled
to take a trip to Colorado.
He canceled that trip at the last minute
staying at the White House
instead for what
they are describing
as national security meetings,
whether that is a prelude
to a presidential visit here to Israel.
We do not yet know.
But of course, the situation
on the ground remains extremely fluid.
We just had sirens
nearby here in Jerusalem, rockets
being fired in central Israel.
And all of this, again,
amid preparations by Israel
for a potential ground invasion. Sara,
Jared Diamond,
you have been so great on this story.
Thank you so much for breaking that down
for us.
Another important
meeting between the U.S.
secretary of state
and many of the leadership here
in Israel.
I do want to mention
why I'm here and why I'm
where I am in Haifa.
We are about 85
miles from the Lebanon border
where there have been rockets
that have come over,
but far, far, far fewer than
what has come out of Gaza, shot by Hamas
here, rockets coming over the border
because of Hezbollah,
a sworn enemy of Israel's.
But for the most part,
it has been quiet here in the north.
But what has also happened
is that the United States
has been getting so many inquiries
from Americans
who can't simply get out of Israel
during wartime,
many of them with children
who are concerned about their safety,
both mentally and physically.
Finally, the United States
was able to charter an enormous ship
that left from this port
a couple of hours ago.
And on it were American families
who had been stuck here for days
as the war raged on, unable to leave
because there aren't enough flights
those flights are very sparse
and almost all of them
are completely packed, leaving Israel.
So this was one way
to try to get hundreds of Americans
out of Israel.
They just took this.
They are currently in the water
on a ten hour travel time to Cyprus,
which is where they will get off
and be able to book their flights
back to the United States.
We spoke to several families
about why they came.
Many of them live here in Israel.
They are American citizens
who have chosen to live here in Israel.
Some of them have been helping
troops on the border
with Lebanon, taking them supplies,
trying to do their part
for the war effort.
But but many just said, look,
it is time for us
to get our kids to safety
and to
calm the nerves of our family members
who have been watching all this from
the United States. Take a listen.
U.S.
citizens and the U.S.
embassy made it pretty
easy to have a way.
And if for some reason
the borders are closed, we'll swim back
Becky.
All right. So you heard that.
She also said, look, we are coming back
and all of them said the same thing.
We will be back in Israel.
We consider this our home as well.
No matter how long it takes,
we will be back here
to this country,
a country that they love as
much as the United States.